# Artificial Intelligence - AId to Health Care

---
Question ? | Answer ! |
--- | --- |
writer | Rajni Dabas - MSc 1st year
Editor | Jatin
status | Review Complete
Plagiarism | None 0% - Grammarly Pro
Content | AI usage in healthcare
Verdict | Good Candidate.
---

The Relevance of Artificial Intelligence in medical research can be traced back to the early 1970s, when MYCIN, one of the earliest expert systems developed to distinguish bacteria causing severe infections used AI to suggest antibiotics, and even adjusted their dosage according to the patient's weight. MYCIN was also victorious in the diagnosis of blood clotting diseases.

And then in November 2017, a team of researchers from IIT Kanpur and IISER Kolkata (Indian Institute of Science Education and Research) developed an AI-based algorithm called the ‘MFDFA-HMM/SVM Integrated Algorithm.’ 

The algorithm differentiates between the normal and the pre-cancerous tissues. It also makes it possible to determine the different stages of the disease within a few minutes, with accuracy exceeding 95%. The algorithm has been tested successfully on in-vitro cancer samples. The team has now begun the investigation to study in vivo samples for precancer detection.
From MYCIN to HMM, from mere bacterial infection diagnosis to cervical cancer detections, AI has helped medical science since the beginning.

AI is actively used for data management in healthcare.
The ‘Google DeepMind Health Project’ launched by the Google AI Research Branch is being used to mine medical records to provide better and faster health services. This project can be used to record health history for individuals and their family and help in better diagnosis. Major steps include data collection, it's storage, normalization, and tracing its lineage.
AI promises a massive impact on Genetics & Genomics. One of the founding members of the Human Genome Project is Craige Venter. He is currently designing an algorithm capable of visualizing physical characteristics of an individual based on their DNA. 

> “ AI began with an ancient wish to forge the gods.” -Pamela McCorduck

What’s next?
Today, machines can process and analyze extensive data and then identify patterns that humans cannot. AI systems have helped the doctors to utilize the information in this data. The advancement in AI has presented healthcare sector with exciting opportunities to improve drastically while cutting the costs. Assisting repetitive jobs, online medical consultations, health assistance, medication management, drug creation are some of the countless applications of AI in healthcare.

While the AI systems are increasingly becoming common in the healthcare organizations, their existence should only be to support people in their jobs, not throw them out of their careers. For example, when developing drugs, scientists need to choose target molecules from a set of possible candidates using which they usually do on instinct or guesswork. AI can work as a “helper” here to perform the task much more efficiently and effectively. 
AI is enabling healthcare professionals in the quick diagnosis of diseases, better clinical decisions and has helped researchers innovate quickly by failing fast en route. Exciting times ahead.