# TIME TRAVEL – THE FUTURE

There was a time in the past when we never thought of rockets going into space and carrying men to Moon. There was a time when the world of science knew about far fewer universes or galaxies than they do now and the idea of the earth rotating on its axis was once unthinkable. Atom was once known as the smallest particle ever existed until a few decades back when electrons, neutrons, and protons were discovered. But, in time, our renowned scientists found, explored and accomplished each of these achievements and much more. 
Time travel is another concept that has kept the scientists on the edge of their seats continuously. In layman terms, as the name suggests, Time travel is moving between different points in time. There have been a ton of theories in the past explaining the dynamics of this idea, which include how it can be achieved or what might be the consequences of traveling in time. Time travel may seem fictional to a lot of people, but considering the boon that science has proved itself to be and the talented minds across the world working on it, it may soon be achievable shortly. 
According to Albert Einstein, time is an illusion. Depending on the speed of observers through space, time varies accordingly. To Einstein, time is something that slows down or speeds up, and it depends on how fast we move relative to some object.

Everybody is always traveling in time. Since the most recent year, I've pushed ahead one year thus have you. Another approach to clarify is that everyone goes in time at the speed of one hour for each hour.
Here, the question arises; would we say we are ready to move in time quicker or slower than '1 hour for every hour'? Or on the other hand, would we be able to move back in time, traveling at the rate, say two hours for each hour, or more?
Considering time travel is astounding. Let's see a famous paradox; Imagine a scenario where we returned in time and kept our parents from meeting. It means we were not born! In any case, at that point, if we hadn't been conceived, we couldn't have backpedaled to keep them away from the meeting. This defines the widespread belief that the concept of changing the events in the past using time travel would affect the timeline of future and hence create an alternate timeline.
Albert Einstein developed a theory named Special Relativity which states that space and time are aspects of the similar thing—space-time. There's a maximum speed limit of 300,000 kilometers per second (or 186,000 miles per second) for anything
that travels through space-time. It is also a known fact that light always travels at its speed limit through space. Special Relativity also says that astonishing things happen when we move through space-time, especially when our speed relative to
different objects is close to the speed of light. Time passes slowly for us than for the individuals we left behind, and this impact won’t be evident until we come back to those individuals.

Theory of Special Relativity, in turn, gives rise to a concept of time dilation. In this, time dilation is a difference of elapsed time taken between two situations as seen by observers either moving in the direction of the other person or if they are in the different gravitational field.

Assume we are 25 years of age when we exited Earth in a spacecraft going at around 99% of the speed of light (which is significantly quicker than what we can accomplish now) and celebrated five birthday celebrations amid our space travel. When we return home at 30 years old, we will locate that every one of our colleagues is 75 years of age, retired and made the most of their grandchildren! Since time passed all the more gradually for us, we will have experienced just five years of life, while our colleagues will have experienced a whole 50 years.
Objects that exist in gravitational fields also experience time travel. General Relativity, another essential theory by Einstein, states that time passes steadier for objects in gravitational fields compared to the objects existing distant from such fields. Black holes are the regions of space-time which exhibit strong gravitational effects that light cannot escape from inside it Gravity is very intense near Black Holes and all kinds of space and time distortions happen close to black holes. Einstein theorized that if we situate ourselves on the edge of a black hole, time will pass more slowly.
Most scientists agree to the fact that time travel to the past is impossible but the idea of Virtual time travel has allowed the world to create illusions of the past. Cutting edge augmented, and virtual reality technologies have made attempts to real-world synthesis phenomenon by digitally creating sites, monuments, artifacts and essentially a history within an interactive virtual environment.
Time travel to the past is unthinkable. The science for it is incomprehensible. But we are confident that time travel into the future is going to really, as the required technology for it is beginning to take shape.